# Project 1: Software Requirements Specification Document

This serves as a template for each projects' Software Requirements Specification (SRS) document. When filling this out, you will be required to create user stories, use cases, requirements, and a glossary of terms relevant to your project. Each group member must contribute to every section, so it is crucial that your group's GitHub repository shows a commit history that reflects the work of each group member. It is highly recommended that you create separate branches for each member, but since this is one single document, you will need to manually merge the branches together. It is also advisable to have multiple working versions of this document (named separately) so that one person can compile the final SRS document from the multiple working versions. Ultimately, how you go about managing this is up to you, but consistent formatting, clear commit messages, and a thorough commit history with contributions from each group member are required.

Fill the document out following the guidelines listed in each section. Maintain [proper Markdown syntax](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/).

## Group Members

- [Alberto Olivi](mailto:aolivi@uncc.edu)
- [Jacob George](mmailto:jgeorg24@uncc.edu)
- [Abdulrahamn Aljabali](mailto:aaljabal@uncc.edu)
- [Name](mmailto:email@uncc.edu)

## Revisions

When a change is made to the document, a new revision should be created. The revision should be added to the table below with all information filled out.

| Version | Date | Description | Author | Reviewed By |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1.0 | 03/22/23 | Initial draft | [David Gary](mailto:dgary9@uncc.edu) | [David Gary](mailto:dgary@uncc.edu) |
| 1.1 | 07/17/23 | AO added: Requirements, Constraints, Use cases, User stories, Glossary | [Alberto Olivi](mailto:aolivi@uncc.edu) | [Alberto Olivi](mailto:aolivi@uncc.edu) |
| 1.2 | 07/17/23 | AO added: Requirements, Constraints, Use cases, User Stories, Glossary | [Jacob George](mmailto:jgeorg24@uncc.edu) | [Jacob George](mmailto:jgeorg24@uncc.edu) |
| 1.2.1 | 07/17/23 | AO added: Requirements, Constraints, Use cases, User Stories, Glossary | [Abdulrahamn Aljabali](mailto:aaljabal@uncc.edu) | [Abdulrahamn Aljabali](mailto:aaljabal@uncc.edu) |

## Table of Contents

1. [Introduction](#introduction)
2. [Requirements](#requirements)
3. [Constraints](#constraints)
4. [Use Cases](#use-cases)
5. [User Stories](#user-stories)
6. [Glossary](#glossary)

## Introduction

This project's objective is to develop an easy-to-use online store using a combination of Python, CSS, and HTML. Our goal is to provide a superior electronic shopping experience by showcasing a diverse selection of meticulously curated high-quality products, with a particular focus on the tech field. We are hoping to integrate many useful as well as eye catching elements for the store to set us apart from the competition.

## Requirements

Each group member must supply at least three functional requirements for the project. Each requirement should be written in the following format:

- **ID:** A unique identifier for the requirement. This should be a number that is unique across the entire document (something like REQ-1, REQ-2, etc. but be sure to replace the word `ID` with the unique identifier).
  - **Description:** A short description of the requirement. This should be a single sentence that describes the requirement. Do not replace the word `Description` with the actual description. Put the description in the space where these instructions are written. Maintain that practice for all future sections.
  - **Type:** The type of requirement. Should be either `Functional` or `Non-Functional`.
  - **Priority:** The priority of the requirement. This should be a number between 1 and 5, with 1 being the highest priority and 5 being the lowest priority.
  - **Rationale:** A short description of why the requirement is important. This should be a single sentence that describes why the requirement is important.
  - **Testing:** A short description of how the requirement can be tested. This should be a single sentence that describes how the requirement can be tested.
- **ID:** A unique identifier for the requirement. This should be a number that is unique across the entire document (something like REQ-1, REQ-2, etc. but be sure to replace the word `ID` with the unique identifier).
  - **Description:** A short description of the requirement. This should be a single sentence that describes the requirement.
  - **Type:** The type of requirement. Should be either `Functional` or `Non-Functional`.
  - **Priority:** The priority of the requirement. This should be a number between 1 and 5, with 1 being the highest priority and 5 being the lowest priority.
  - **Rationale:** A short description of why the requirement is important. This should be a single sentence that describes why the requirement is important.
  - **Testing:** A short description of how the requirement can be tested. This should be a single sentence that describes how the requirement can be tested.

- **REQ-1:** (AO)
  - **Description:** The online store should display a website logo that redirects to the site's homepage.
  - **Type:** Functional
  - **Priority:** 3
  - **Rationale:** This function allows for easy navigation, and easy access to the homepage for customers.
  - **Testing:** Can be tested by clicking on the website logo and that it redirects the user to the homepage everytime.

- **REQ-2:** (AO)
  - **Description:** The store should allow customers to make their personal accounts.
  - **Type:** Functional
  - **Priority:** 1
  - **Rationale:** Personal accounts allow to save information about a specific customer, like orders, wishlist, or payment methods.
  - **Testing:** Test that accounts can be successfully created and they can store the customer's information and orders.

- **REQ-3:** (AO)
  - **Description:** The customers should be able to create a favorite / wishlist to save products they want.
  - **Type:** Functional
  - **Priority:** 2
  - **Rationale:** Easy way for customers to track items that they want and may buy in the future.
  - **Testing:** Test that items can be saved to the wishlist and can be accessed again later.
 
- **REQ-4:** (JG)
  - **Description:** The customers should be able to add products to a shopping cart and view the contents of the cart.
  - **Type:** Functional
  - **Priority:** 2
  - **Rationale:** Allows users to select products for purchase and review their selections before proceeding to checkout.
  - **Testing:** Test by adding products to the cart and verifying that the products are added to the cart.

- **REQ-5:** (JG)
  - **Description:** The online store should provide a product filtering and sorting feature.
  - **Type:** Functional
  - **Priority:** 1
  - **Rationale:** Easy way for customers to shop by filtering options, helping customers narrow down their search.
  - **Testing:** Test the filtering and sorting functionality by applying different filters and verifying that the displayed products are sorted.
    
- **REQ-6:** (JG)
  - **Description:** The customers should be able to have a guest checkout option for customers who prefer not to create an account.
  - **Type:** Functional
  - **Priority:** 1
  - **Rationale:** Easy way for customers who don't want to make an account check out fast.
  - **Testing:** Test while checkout to see if customer has to sign in or not with account information.
 
- **REQ-7:** (AA)
  - **Description:** The store must be able to display thew items neatly showing a picture of the item with it's name and price
  - **Type:** Functional & visual
  - **Priority:** 1
  - **Rationale:** Having neat and visually appealing items displayed is a bonus for the website as the customers can see the products
    directly.
  - **Testing:** Create some items, and when checking the items page see how they display.
 
- **REQ-8:** (AA)
  - **Description:** Create a database system that stores all information of the store including but not limited to: customers, items, carts, orders.
  - **Type:** Functional
  - **Priority:** 1
  - **Rationale:** the database is a must in order to save all the information and be able to provide updated information of the online store as that information is constantly being modified and viewed.
  - **Testing:** load the database with some basic data and interact with every component (functions) of the online store and see if database is updating accordingly or is missing parameters.
 
- **REQ-9:** (AA)
  - **Description:** The online must keep track of number of items in stock and display an out of stock logo when quantity reaches zero.
  - **Priority:** 2
  - **Rationale:** if a product is out of stock it should be made apparent to the customer as soon as possible as not to waste time clicking on the product and seeing it is no longer available.
  - **Testing:** set item stock to 0 and see if it updates accordingly when displaying products. 

## Constraints

In this section, you should list any constraints that you have for the project. Each group member must supply at least two constraints. These can be constraints on the project itself, the software system, or the stakeholders. Constraints can be anything that limits the scope of the project. For example, that this project's template code is written using Flask and Python constitutes a constraint on the backend of the project. Constraints can also be things like the required timeline of the project. Be creative.

- **1**: Resource Constraint (AO): The project team consists of four members, limiting the amount of work that can to be done to complete the project before the deadline. All communication and coordination is conducted online, which can provide an additional constraint in teamwork.

- **2**: Programming Knowledge Constraint (AO): The team may not have all the required or needed knowledge to successfully complete the entire project, or fix every problem/bug that we may find; possibly resulting in additional challenges that will take up more of our time.

- **3**: Language Constraint (JG): Python, CSS, and HTML must be the only programming languages and frameworks used in the development of the online store.
  
- **4**: Time Constraint Constraint (JG): The project has a strict deadline, which limits the available time for development, testing.

- **5**: Uniquness constraint (AA): The project's topic is derived from a set of templates that every group is going to put to use, so having a truly unique project, visuals and functionalities in order to set us apart from other teams is going to take a lot of creativity.

- **6**: lack of functionalities constraint (AA): due to the team's lack of professional programming expertise, it might be hard to come up with functionalities that you might expect to have in a regular online shop such as automated payments, advanced visuals and other advanced functionalities which makes other functionalities kind of bland and more criticised.

## Use Cases

In this section, you should list use cases for the project. Use cases are a thorough description of how the system will be used. Each group member must supply at least two use cases. Each use case should be written in the following format:

- **ID:** A unique identifier for the use case. This should be a number that is unique across the entire document (something like UC-1, UC-2, etc. but be sure to replace the word `ID` with the unique identifier).
  - **Description:** A description of the use case that gives the user a high-level overview of how the system is interacted with.
  - **Actors:** A list of the actors that are involved in the use case. Only include the actors that are directly involved. Actors are the people or things that interact with the system. For example, when ordering at a fast food restaurant, one might have the following actors: the customer, the cashier, and the cook. But only the customer and the cashier are directly involved in the use case of ordering food. The cook is not directly involved in the use case of ordering food.
  - **Preconditions:** A list of the preconditions for the use case. This should be a list of the preconditions for the use case, which are the conditions that must be met before the use case can be executed. Continuing with the restaurant example, the customer must have money in their wallet and the cashier must be logged in to the system before the use case of ordering food can be executed.
  - **Postconditions:** A list of the postconditions for the use case. This should be a list of the postconditions for the use case, which are the conditions that must be met after the use case has been executed. Continuing with the restaurant example, the customer must have their food and the cashier must have the customer's money after the use case of ordering food has been executed.

- **UC-1:** (AO)
  - **Description:** The customer register a new account.
  - **Actors:** Customer, Registering System
  - **Preconditions:** 
        - The customer must have access to the store website.
        - The customer must have an email.
  - **Postconditions:** 
        - The customer will have a registered a new account.
        - The customer can log in the system with that new account.

- **UC-2:** (AO)
  - **Description:** The customer search for a product.
  - **Actors:** Customer, Search Database
  - **Preconditions:** 
        - The website must be online and available to the customer.
  - **Postconditions:** 
        - The customer will see results that match their search request.
        - The customer can click on a product to open the product's page.
  
- **UC-3:** (JG)
  - **Description:** The customer adds a product to their shopping cart.
  - **Actors:** : Customer, Shopping Cart
  - **Preconditions:** 
        - The website must be online and available to the customer.
        - The product must be available in the online store.
  - **Postconditions:** 
        - The product is added to the customer's shopping cart.
        - The shopping cart updates with the added product and its quantity.
  
- **UC-4:** (JG)
  - **Description:** The customer completes a purchase.
  - **Actors:** Customer, Checkout Function
  - **Preconditions:** 
        - The website must be online and available to the customer.
        - The customer must have items in their shopping cart.
  - **Postconditions:** 
        - The payment is processed and confirmed.
        - The purchased items are removed from the customer's shopping cart.

- **UC-5:** (AA)
  - **Description:** The customer login into their account.
  - **Actors:** Customer, login System
  - **Preconditions:** 
        - The customer must have access to the store website.
        - The customer must have an already registered account.
        - the customer must enter the correct username and password.
  - **Postconditions:** 
        - The customer will now have access to their account on the system.
        - The customer can view their favorties, wishlist, and order history.

- **UC-6:** (AA)
  - **Description:** The administrator (user still unclear) adds a new product.
  - **Actors:** admin, admin page
  - **Preconditions:** 
        - The adminstrator must have an account in the database.
        - The user must be logged in as an administrator.
  - **Postconditions:** 
        - A newly added product will be available in the store.
        - the new product is registred in the database.
    

## User Stories

In this section, you should list user stories for the project. User stories are a short description of how a user will be interacting with the system. Each group member must supply at least two user stories. Each user story should be written in the following format:

- **ID:** A unique identifier for the user story. This should be a number that is unique across the entire document (something like US-1, US-2, etc. but be sure to replace the word `ID` with the unique identifier).
  - **Type of User:** The type of user that the user story is for. This should be a single word that describes the type of user. For example, a user story for a customer might be `Customer` and a user story for an administrator might be `Admin`.
  - **Description:** A description of the user story that gives a narrative from that user's perspective. This can be any length, but it must paint the picture of what the user wants to do, how they intend to do it, why they want to, and what they expect to happen.

- **US-1:** (AO)
  - **Type of User:** Customer
  - **Description:** As a customer, I want to be able to search directly for a product without having to register an account. I want to be able to go the store, look into the category that I want and search for any products that matches my description.

- **US-2:** (AO)
  - **Type of User:** Administrator
  - **Description:** As an administrator, I want to be able to go into the site database to see and track the inventory, as well as any product that was sold, while also being able to sort the inventory alphabetically, by price, or date sold.

- **US-3:** (JG)
  - **Type of User:** Customer
  - **Description:** As a customer, I want to be able to complete a purchase as a guest without the need to create an account, so that I can make a quick purchase without providing additional personal information.

- **US-4:** (JG)
  - **Type of User:** Administrator
  - **Description:** As an administrator, I want to be able to manage customer orders, including checking order data and changing order statuses.
 
- **US-5:** (AA)
  - **Type of User:** customer
  - **Description:** As a customer i want to be able to log into the store system and access my past orders as well as my favorite items.
 
- **US-6:** (AA)
  - **Type of User:** Administrator
  - **Description:** As an administrator, I want to be able to add new products and be able to edit their description, quantity or update their images.

## Glossary

In this section, you should list any terms that are used in the document that may not be immediately obvious to a naive reader. Each group member must supply at least one term. Each term should be written in the following format:

- **Term:** The term that is being defined. This should be a single word or phrase that is being defined.
  - **Definition:** A definition of the term. This should be a short description of the term that is being defined. This should be a single sentence that describes the term.

- **Term:** Database (AO)
  - **Definition:** A collection of structured information or data that is stored electronically and can be easily accessed and managed. Here, it's used to store products, orders and user's information.

- **Term:** Function (JG)
  - **Definition:** A block of code that performs a specific task when called, taking in inputs and producing outputs. In this example it could be multiple things including the checkout function that allows customers to make a purchase with the input being the items in the shopping cart.
 
- **Term:** constraint (AA)
  - **Definition:** a constraint is a limitation or restriction to be able to do or achieve something.

Try to only list terms that a naive user would not understand.

## Submission Details

- On Canvas, submit the following:
  - The URL to your group's GitHub repository, with the latest version of your code pushed to the `main` branch.
